The promise of a smooth career, which my first calm introduction to Thornfield Hall seemed to pledge, was not belied on a longer acquaintance with the place and its inmates. Mrs. Fairfax turned outto be what she appeared, a placidtempered, kindnatured woman, ofcompetent education and average intelligence. My pupil was a livelychild, who had been spoilt and indulged, and therefore was sometimeswayward. but as she was committed entirely to my care, and noinjudicious interference from any quarter ever thwarted my plans forher improvement, she soon forgot her little freaks, and becameobedient and teachable. She had no great talents, no marked traitsof character, no peculiar development of feeling or taste which raisedher one inch above the ordinary level of childhood. but neither hadshe any deficiency or vice which sunk her below it. She madereasonable progress, entertained for me a vivacious, though perhapsnot very profound, affection. and by her simplicity, gay prattle,and efforts to please, inspired me, in return, with a degree ofattachment sufficient to make us both content in each other's society. This, par parenthese, will be thought cool language by personswho entertain solemn doctrines about the angelic nature of children,and the duty of those charged with their education to conceive forthem an idolatrous devotion, but I am not writing to flatterparental egotism, to echo cant, or prop up humbug. I am merely tellingthe truth. I felt a conscientious solicitude for Adele's welfare andprogress, and a quiet liking for her little self, just as Icherished towards Mrs. Fairfax a thankfulness for her kindness, anda pleasure in her society proportionate to the tranquil regard she hadfor me, and the moderation of her mind and character. Anybody may blame me who likes, when I add further, that, now andthen, when I took a walk by myself in the grounds. when I went down tothe gates and looked through them along the road. or when, while Adeleplayed with her nurse, and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom,I climbed the three staircases, raised the trapdoor of the attic, andhaving reached the leads, looked out afar over sequestered field andhill, and along dim skyline that then I longed for a power of visionwhich might overpass that limit. which might reach the busy world,towns, regions full of life I had heard of but never seen that then Idesired more of practical experience than I possessed. more ofintercourse with my kind, of acquaintance with variety of character,than was here within my reach. I valued what was good in Mrs. Fairfax,and what was good in Adele. but I believed in the existence of otherand more vivid kinds of goodness, and what I believed in I wished tobehold. Who blames me? Many, no doubt. and I shall be calleddiscontented. I could not help it, the restlessness was in mynature. it agitated me to pain sometimes. Then my sole relief was towalk along the corridor of the third storey, backwards and forwards,safe in the silence and solitude of the spot, and allow my mind'seye to dwell on whatever bright visions rose before it and, certainly, they were many and glowing. to let my heart be heaved bythe exultant movement, which, while it swelled it in trouble, expandedit with life. and, best of all, to open my inward ear to a tale thatwas never ended a tale my imagination created, and narratedcontinuously. quickened with all of incident, life, fire, feeling,that I desired and had not in my actual existence. It is in vain to say human beings ought to be satisfied withtranquillity, they must have action. and they will make it if theycannot find it. Millions are condemned to a stiller doom than mine,and millions are in silent revolt against their lot. Nobody knowshow many rebellions besides political rebellions ferment in the massesof life which people earth. Women are supposed to be very calmgenerally, but women feel just as men feel. they need exercise fortheir faculties, and a field for their efforts, as much as theirbrothers do. they suffer from too rigid a restraint, too absolute astagnation, precisely as men would suffer. and it is narrowmindedin their more privileged fellowcreatures to say that they ought toconfine themselves to making puddings and knitting stockings, toplaying on the piano and embroidering bags. It is thoughtless tocondemn them, or laugh at them, if they seek to do more or learnmore than custom has pronounced necessary for their sex. When thus alone, I not unfrequently heard Grace Poole's laugh,the same peal, the same low, slow ha! ha! which, when first heard, hadthrilled me, I heard, too, her eccentric murmurs. stranger than herlaugh. There were days when she was quite silent. but there wereothers when I could not account for the sounds she made. Sometimes Isaw her, she would come out of her room with a basin, or a plate, or atray in her hand, go down to the kitchen and shortly return, generally(oh, romantic reader, forgive me for telling the plain truth!) bearinga pot of porter. Her appearance always acted as a damper to thecuriosity raised by her oral oddities, hardfeatured and staid, shehad no point to which interest could attach. I made some attempts todraw her into conversation, but she seemed a person of few words, amonosyllabic reply usually cut short every effort of that sort. The other members of the household, viz., John and his wife, Leahthe housemaid, and Sophie the French nurse, were decent people. but inno respect remarkable. with Sophie I used to talk French, andsometimes I asked her questions about her native country. but shewas not of a descriptive or narrative turn, and generally gave suchvapid and confused answers as were calculated rather to check thanencourage inquiry. October, November, December passed away. One afternoon inJanuary, Mrs. Fairfax had begged a holiday for Adele, because shehad a cold. and, as Adele seconded the request with an ardour thatreminded me how precious occasional holidays had been to me in myown childhood, I accorded it, deeming that I did well in showingpliability on the point. It was a fine, calm day, though very cold.I was tired of sitting still in the library through a whole longmorning, Mrs. Fairfax had just written a letter which was waiting tobe posted, so I put on my bonnet and cloak and volunteered to carry itto Hay. the distance, two miles, would be a pleasant winterafternoon walk. Having seen Adele comfortably seated in her littlechair by Mrs. Fairfax's parlour fireside, and given her her best waxdoll (which I usually kept enveloped in silver paper in a drawer) toplay with, and a storybook for a change of amusement. and havingreplied to her 'Revenez bientot, ma bonne amie, ma chere Mdlle.Jeannette,' with a kiss I set out. The ground was hard, the air was still, my road was lonely. Iwalked fast till I got warm, and then I walked slowly to enjoy andanalyse the species of pleasure brooding for me in the hour andsituation. It was three o'clock. the church bell tolled as I passedunder the belfry, the charm of the hour lay in its approachingdimness, in the lowgliding and palebeaming sun. I was a mile fromThornfield, in a lane noted for wild roses in summer, for nuts andblackberries in autumn, and even now possessing a few coraltreasures in hips and haws, but whose best winter delight lay in itsutter solitude and leafless repose. If a breath of air stirred, itmade no sound here. for there was not a holly, not an evergreen torustle, and the stripped hawthorn and hazel bushes were as still asthe white, worn stones which causewayed the middle of the path. Farand wide, on each side, there were only fields, where no cattle nowbrowsed. and the little brown birds, which stirred occasionally in thehedge, looked like single russet leaves that had forgotten to drop. This lane inclined uphill all the way to Hay. having reached themiddle, I sat down on a stile which led thence into a field. Gatheringmy mantle about me, and sheltering my hands in my muff, I did not feelthe cold, though it froze keenly. as was attested by a sheet of icecovering the causeway, where a little brooklet, now congealed, hadoverflowed after a rapid thaw some days since. From my seat I couldlook down on Thornfield, the grey and battlemented hall was theprincipal object in the vale below me. its woods and dark rookery roseagainst the, west. I lingered till the sun went down amongst thetrees, and sank crimson and clear behind them. I then turned eastward. On the hilltop above me sat the rising moon. pale yet as acloud, but brightening momentarily, she looked over Hay, which, halflost in trees, sent up a blue smoke from its few chimneys, it wasyet a mile distant, but in the absolute hush I could hear plainlyits thin murmurs of life. My ear, too, felt the flow of currents. inwhat dales and depths I could not tell, but there were many hillsbeyond Hay, and doubtless many becks threading their passes. Thatevening calm betrayed alike the tinkle of the nearest streams, thesough of the most remote. A rude noise broke on these fine ripplings and whisperings, at onceso far away and so clear, a positive tramp, tramp, a metallic clatter,which effaced the soft wavewanderings. as, in a picture, the solidmass of a crag, or the rough boles of a great oak, drawn in dark andstrong on the foreground, efface the aerial distance of azure hill,sunny horizon, and blended clouds where tint melts into tint. The din was on the causeway, a horse was coming. the windings ofthe lane yet hid it, but it approached. I was just leaving thestile. yet, as the path was narrow, I sat still to let it go by. Inthose days I was young, and all sorts of fancies bright and darktenanted my mind, the memories of nursery stories were there amongstother rubbish. and when they recurred, maturing youth added to thema vigour and vividness beyond what childhood could give. As this horseapproached, and as I watched for it to appear through the dusk, I remembered certain of Bessie's tales, wherein figured aNorthofEngland spirit called a 'Gytrash,' which, in the form ofhorse, mule, or large dog, haunted solitary ways, and sometimes cameupon belated travellers, as this horse was now coming upon me. It was very near, but not yet in sight. when, in addition to thetramp, tramp, I heard a rush under the hedge, and close down by thehazel stems glided a great dog, whose black and white colour madehim a distinct object against the trees. It was exactly one form ofBessie's Gytrash a lionlike creature with long hair and a huge head,it passed me, however, quietly enough. not staying to look up, withstrange pretercanine eyes, in my face, as I half expected it would.The horse followed, a tall steed, and on its back a rider. The man,the human being, broke the spell at once. Nothing ever rode theGytrash, it was always alone. and goblins, to my notions, thoughthey might tenant the dumb carcasses of beasts, could scarce covetshelter in the commonplace human form. No Gytrash was this, only atraveller taking the short cut to Millcote. He passed, and I wenton. a few steps, and I turned, a sliding sound and an exclamation of 'What the deuce is to do now?' and a clattering tumble, arrested myattention. Man and horse were down. they had slipped on the sheet ofice which glazed the causeway. The dog came bounding back, andseeing his master in a predicament, and hearing the horse groan,barked till the evening hills echoed the sound, which was deep inproportion to his magnitude. He snuffed round the prostrate group, andthen he ran up to me. it was all he could do, there was no other helpat hand to summon. I obeyed him, and walked down to the traveller,by this time struggling himself free of his steed. His efforts were sovigorous, I thought he could not be much hurt. but I asked him the question. The promise of a smooth career, which my first calm introduction to Thornfield Hall seemed to pledge, was not belied on a longer acquaintance with the place and its inmates. Mrs. Fairfax turned outto be what she appeared, a placidtempered, kindnatured woman, ofcompetent education and average intelligence. My pupil was a livelychild, who had been spoilt and indulged, and therefore was sometimeswayward. but as she was committed entirely to my care, and noinjudicious interference from any quarter ever thwarted my plans forher improvement, she soon forgot her little freaks, and becameobedient and teachable. She had no great talents, no marked traitsof character, no peculiar development of feeling or taste which raisedher one inch above the ordinary level of childhood. but neither hadshe any deficiency or vice which sunk her below it. She madereasonable progress, entertained for me a vivacious, though perhapsnot very profound, affection. and by her simplicity, gay prattle,and efforts to please, inspired me, in return, with a degree ofattachment sufficient to make us both content in each other's society. This, par parenthese, will be thought cool language by personswho entertain solemn doctrines about the angelic nature of children,and the duty of those charged with their education to conceive forthem an idolatrous devotion, but I am not writing to flatterparental egotism, to echo cant, or prop up humbug. I am merely tellingthe truth. I felt a conscientious solicitude for Adele's welfare andprogress, and a quiet liking for her little self, just as Icherished towards Mrs. Fairfax a thankfulness for her kindness, anda pleasure in her society proportionate to the tranquil regard she hadfor me, and the moderation of her mind and character. Anybody may blame me who likes, when I add further, that, now andthen, when I took a walk by myself in the grounds. when I went down tothe gates and looked through them along the road. or when, while Adeleplayed with her nurse, and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom,I climbed the three staircases, raised the trapdoor of the attic, andhaving reached the leads, looked out afar over sequestered field andhill, and along dim skyline that then I longed for a power of visionwhich might overpass that limit. which might reach the busy world,towns, regions full of life I had heard of but never seen that then Idesired more of practical experience than I possessed. more ofintercourse with my kind, of acquaintance with variety of character,than was here within my reach. I valued what was good in Mrs. Fairfax,and what was good in Adele. but I believed in the existence of otherand more vivid kinds of goodness, and what I believed in I wished tobehold. Who blames me? Many, no doubt. and I shall be calleddiscontented. I could not help it, the restlessness was in mynature. it agitated me to pain sometimes. Then my sole relief was towalk along the corridor of the third storey, backwards and forwards,safe in the silence and solitude of the spot, and allow my mind'seye to dwell on whatever bright visions rose before it and, certainly, they were many and glowing. to let my heart be heaved bythe exultant movement, which, while it swelled it in trouble, expandedit with life. and, best of all, to open my inward ear to a tale thatwas never ended a tale my imagination created, and narratedcontinuously. quickened with all of incident, life, fire, feeling,that I desired and had not in my actual existence. It is in vain to say human beings ought to be satisfied withtranquillity, they must have action. and they will make it if theycannot find it. Millions are condemned to a stiller doom than mine,and millions are in silent revolt against their lot. Nobody knowshow many rebellions besides political rebellions ferment in the massesof life which people earth. Women are supposed to be very calmgenerally, but women feel just as men feel. they need exercise fortheir faculties, and a field for their efforts, as much as theirbrothers do. they suffer from too rigid a restraint, too absolute astagnation, precisely as men would suffer. and it is narrowmindedin their more privileged fellowcreatures to say that they ought toconfine themselves to making puddings and knitting stockings, toplaying on the piano and embroidering bags. It is thoughtless tocondemn them, or laugh at them, if they seek to do more or learnmore than custom has pronounced necessary for their sex. When thus alone, I not unfrequently heard Grace Poole's laugh,the same peal, the same low, slow ha! ha! which, when first heard, hadthrilled me, I heard, too, her eccentric murmurs. stranger than herlaugh. There were days when she was quite silent. but there wereothers when I could not account for the sounds she made. Sometimes Isaw her, she would come out of her room with a basin, or a plate, or atray in her hand, go down to the kitchen and shortly return, generally(oh, romantic reader, forgive me for telling the plain truth!) bearinga pot of porter. Her appearance always acted as a damper to thecuriosity raised by her oral oddities, hardfeatured and staid, shehad no point to which interest could attach. I made some attempts todraw her into conversation, but she seemed a person of few words, amonosyllabic reply usually cut short every effort of that sort. The other members of the household, viz., John and his wife, Leahthe housemaid, and Sophie the French nurse, were decent people. but inno respect remarkable. with Sophie I used to talk French, andsometimes I asked her questions about her native country. but shewas not of a descriptive or narrative turn, and generally gave suchvapid and confused answers as were calculated rather to check thanencourage inquiry. October, November, December passed away. One afternoon inJanuary, Mrs. Fairfax had begged a holiday for Adele, because shehad a cold. and, as Adele seconded the request with an ardour thatreminded me how precious occasional holidays had been to me in myown childhood, I accorded it, deeming that I did well in showingpliability on the point. It was a fine, calm day, though very cold.I was tired of sitting still in the library through a whole longmorning, Mrs. Fairfax had just written a letter which was waiting tobe posted, so I put on my bonnet and cloak and volunteered to carry itto Hay. the distance, two miles, would be a pleasant winterafternoon walk. Having seen Adele comfortably seated in her littlechair by Mrs. Fairfax's parlour fireside, and given her her best waxdoll (which I usually kept enveloped in silver paper in a drawer) toplay with, and a storybook for a change of amusement. and havingreplied to her 'Revenez bientot, ma bonne amie, ma chere Mdlle.Jeannette,' with a kiss I set out. The ground was hard, the air was still, my road was lonely. Iwalked fast till I got warm, and then I walked slowly to enjoy andanalyse the species of pleasure brooding for me in the hour andsituation. It was three o'clock. the church bell tolled as I passedunder the belfry, the charm of the hour lay in its approachingdimness, in the lowgliding and palebeaming sun. I was a mile fromThornfield, in a lane noted for wild roses in summer, for nuts andblackberries in autumn, and even now possessing a few coraltreasures in hips and haws, but whose best winter delight lay in itsutter solitude and leafless repose. If a breath of air stirred, itmade no sound here. for there was not a holly, not an evergreen torustle, and the stripped hawthorn and hazel bushes were as still asthe white, worn stones which causewayed the middle of the path. Farand wide, on each side, there were only fields, where no cattle nowbrowsed. and the little brown birds, which stirred occasionally in thehedge, looked like single russet leaves that had forgotten to drop. This lane inclined uphill all the way to Hay. having reached themiddle, I sat down on a stile which led thence into a field. Gatheringmy mantle about me, and sheltering my hands in my muff, I did not feelthe cold, though it froze keenly. as was attested by a sheet of icecovering the causeway, where a little brooklet, now congealed, hadoverflowed after a rapid thaw some days since. From my seat I couldlook down on Thornfield, the grey and battlemented hall was theprincipal object in the vale below me. its woods and dark rookery roseagainst the, west. I lingered till the sun went down amongst thetrees, and sank crimson and clear behind them. I then turned eastward. On the hilltop above me sat the rising moon. pale yet as acloud, but brightening momentarily, she looked over Hay, which, halflost in trees, sent up a blue smoke from its few chimneys, it wasyet a mile distant, but in the absolute hush I could hear plainlyits thin murmurs of life. My ear, too, felt the flow of currents. inwhat dales and depths I could not tell, but there were many hillsbeyond Hay, and doubtless many becks threading their passes. Thatevening calm betrayed alike the tinkle of the nearest streams, thesough of the most remote. A rude noise broke on these fine ripplings and whisperings, at onceso far away and so clear, a positive tramp, tramp, a metallic clatter,which effaced the soft wavewanderings. as, in a picture, the solidmass of a crag, or the rough boles of a great oak, drawn in dark andstrong on the foreground, efface the aerial distance of azure hill,sunny horizon, and blended clouds where tint melts into tint. The din was on the causeway, a horse was coming. the windings ofthe lane yet hid it, but it approached. I was just leaving thestile. yet, as the path was narrow, I sat still to let it go by. Inthose days I was young, and all sorts of fancies bright and darktenanted my mind, the memories of nursery stories were there amongstother rubbish. and when they recurred, maturing youth added to thema vigour and vividness beyond what childhood could give. As this horseapproached, and as I watched for it to appear through the dusk, I remembered certain of Bessie's tales, wherein figured aNorthofEngland spirit called a 'Gytrash,' which, in the form ofhorse, mule, or large dog, haunted solitary ways, and sometimes cameupon belated travellers, as this horse was now coming upon me. It was very near, but not yet in sight. when, in addition to thetramp, tramp, I heard a rush under the hedge, and close down by thehazel stems glided a great dog, whose black and white colour madehim a distinct object against the trees. It was exactly one form ofBessie's Gytrash a lionlike creature with long hair and a huge head,it passed me, however, quietly enough. not staying to look up, withstrange pretercanine eyes, in my face, as I half expected it would.The horse followed, a tall steed, and on its back a rider. The man,the human being, broke the spell at once. Nothing ever rode theGytrash, it was always alone. and goblins, to my notions, thoughthey might tenant the dumb carcasses of beasts, could scarce covetshelter in the commonplace human form. No Gytrash was this, only atraveller taking the short cut to Millcote. He passed, and I wenton. a few steps, and I turned, a sliding sound and an exclamation of 'What the deuce is to do now?' and a clattering tumble, arrested myattention. Man and horse were down. they had slipped on the sheet ofice which glazed the causeway. The dog came bounding back, andseeing his master in a predicament, and hearing the horse groan,barked till the evening hills echoed the sound, which was deep inproportion to his magnitude. He snuffed round the prostrate group, andthen he ran up to me. it was all he could do, there was no other helpat hand to summon. I obeyed him, and walked down to the traveller,by this time struggling himself free of his steed. His efforts were sovigorous, I thought he could not be much hurt. but I asked him the question.